README.md, before:

### To run fastapi server using uvicorn server package

`uvicorn filename:fastapi_instance_name --reload`

### Basic API operation

- GET
- POST
- PUT
- DELETE

### Automatic Documentation by FastAPI

- FastAPI creates automatic documentation for particular endpoint
- This helps to know about our api endpoint function
- We can also test out api from auto generated docs
- `path_name/docs` to open fastapi auto generated **docs**

### Path Parameters

- In path parameter we have two inputh parameter **'path'** and '**query'**
- Path parameter is like `.com/path_name/sub_path` is path parameters in URL

### Query Parameters

- Query parameter is similar to path parameter
- This query is used to **pass value** into *URL*
- Query parameter is like `.com/path_name?name=some_name`
- Difference between path and query parameter is the endpoint parameter not needed in query parameter
- Always give query parameter default value as  `None`  type as default value to avoid *required parameter while testing the API in docs mode
- Enclose the parameter str within Optional because the given str parameter for that endpoint is optional in that endpoint
- We cannot place optional parameter before required parameter in endpoint function

### Combining Path & Query parameters

- Here we have both path and query parameter in endpoint function
- Path parameter value is obtained from path **URL** and query parameter value is obtained from query phase in **URL** but this query is optional
- But the purpose of this endpoint is to handle both functions
- Here both ***path and query*** parameters are required to fetch data from server

### Common Mistake

1. Use  **/**  in endpoint path starting character to specify any path to endpoint
2. Use decerator `@app.method_name` before writing any endpoint

Commit message:

done post method
uses pydantic BaseModel to verify

README.md, after:

### To run fastapi server using uvicorn server package

`uvicorn filename:fastapi_instance_name --reload`

### Basic API operation

- GET
- POST
- PUT
- DELETE

### Automatic Documentation by FastAPI

- FastAPI creates automatic documentation for particular endpoint
- This helps to know about our api endpoint function
- We can also test out api from auto generated docs
- `path_name/docs` to open fastapi auto generated **docs**

### Path Parameters

- In path parameter we have two inputh parameter **'path'** and '**query'**
- Path parameter is like `.com/path_name/sub_path` is path parameters in URL

### Query Parameters

- Query parameter is similar to path parameter
- This query is used to **pass value** into *URL*
- Query parameter is like `.com/path_name?name=some_name`
- Difference between path and query parameter is the endpoint parameter not needed in query parameter
- Always give query parameter default value as  `None`  type as default value to avoid *required parameter while testing the API in docs mode
- Enclose the parameter str within Optional because the given str parameter for that endpoint is optional in that endpoint
- We cannot place optional parameter before required parameter in endpoint function

### Combining Path & Query parameters

- Here we have both path and query parameter in endpoint function
- Path parameter value is obtained from path **URL** and query parameter value is obtained from query phase in **URL** but this query is optional
- But the purpose of this endpoint is to handle both functions
- Here both ***path and query*** parameters are required to fetch data from server

### Request Body & Post Method

- The request body contains new JSON object that contains data of new user to insert in students object
- Here we use pydantic library to verify our incoming data is in it original data type structure or not

  ```python
  from pydantic import BaseModel
  class Student(BaseModel):
      name: str
      age: int
      email: str
  ```
- Using this **BaseModel** parent class we create sub-class, so that we can verify incoming JSON data is in that particular data type or not

  ```python
  @app.post('/create-student/{student_id}')
  def create_student(student_id : int, student : Student):
      if student_id in students:
          return {'Error': 'Student Id already exists'}
      students[student_id] = student
      return students[student_id]
  ```
- In this endpoint we get JSON data in request body so we can't see data in URL we can only see new student_id were this id need to be unique which means this student_id should not be in students object.
- `student: Student` in `create_student` endpoint method say that incoming request body data should match the Student class data type structure if not then incoming JSON data can't be inserted into students object.

### Common Mistake

1. Use  **/**  in endpoint path starting character to specify any path to endpoint
2. Use decerator `@app.method_name` before writing any endpoint
